# 2. Background
## 2.1. Traditional Database 
## 2.2. Blockchain Database 
A blockchain is a digital information recording method capable of recording data using a logbook approach and with the following essential characteristics: 1-Ordered, 2-Incremental, 3-Sound (cryptographically verifiable up to a given block) and 4-Digital. Other characteristics such as distributed and mutable-by-proof-of-work are not characteristics of a blockchain itself, but characteristics added by sharing, distribution, communication, and agreement protocols.<br><br>
The name blockchain stems from its technical structure - a chain of blocks. Blocks are chained in a sequence using cryptographic hashes. A blockchain is a distributed database, meaning that the storage devices for the database are not all connected to a common processor. The database is managed by one, several, or all peers in a network rather than a central authority [1].<br><br>
It is well-known within the software engineering community that verifying emergent system properties in complex systems is an extremely hard problem. The distributed characteristics of blockchain implies that, at any point in time, all users on the blockchain should have an identical copy of the ledger. The purpose of this is to guarantee the phrase "I know, that what I see, is what you see". However, the way of distributing the ledger and how to ensure ledger consistency may vary a lot between implementations.<br>
## 2.3. The differences 

---
[1] Deloitte. Bitcoin, blockchain and distributed ledgers: caught between promise and reality, 2016.<br><br>
[<< introduction](./1. Introduction.md)				[Blockchain >>](./3. Blockchain.md)
