## 2.1. Traditional Database

A traditional database is a data structure used for storing information. This includes data that can be queried to gather insights for structured reporting used by entities to support business, financial and management decisions. Government also make use of databases to store large sets of data which scale to millions of records.

Databases started as flat file hierarchical systems which provided simple information gathering and storage. Later, databases used a relational model which allowed more complex ways of gathering data by relating information from multiple databases. The information stored in databases can be organized using a database management system. A simple database is stored in data elements called a table. Tables contain fields, which define the type of record, that store data called attributes. Each field contains columns that describe the field and rows which define a record stored in a database.

A database can be modified, managed and controlled by a single user called an administrator. The database always has a user that functions as a DB Admin and that user has complete control of the database. This user can create, delete, modify and change any record stored in a database. They can also perform administration on the database like optimizing performance and managing its size to more manageable levels. A large database tends to slow performance, so admins can run optimization methods to improve performance.

The admin can then delegate certain roles to other users that allows them to administer or manage the database. For example, an admin can delegate a role to a user that allows them to create new users for the database. When something goes wrong, the admin and their delegates can restore a database from backup. In the corporate world, problems like this are common. Servers crash, and the only way to recover data is to restore a database from backup.

A database is also recursive, meaning that you can go back to repeat a task on a particular record and modify or delete it. Admins often purge old records in a database that have either been backed up already to another database or have been deemed obsolete information. An example is if you have a record for “John Smith” in a current database that needs to be updated to a new residential address. There is already a backup of previous addresses of “John Smith” in an archived database, so the record can be updated with the new address in the current database.

[<< Background](2.Background.md) | [Blockchain Databasen >>](2.2.Blockchain Database.md)
