## 2.2. Blockchain Database 
A blockchain is a digital information recording method capable of recording data using a logbook approach and with the following essential characteristics: 1-Ordered, 2-Incremental, 3-Sound (cryptographically verifiable up to a given block) and 4-Digital. Other characteristics such as distributed and mutable-by-proof-of-work are not characteristics of a blockchain itself, but characteristics added by sharing, distribution, communication, and agreement protocols.

The name blockchain stems from its technical structure - a chain of blocks. Blocks are chained in a sequence using cryptographic hashes. A blockchain is a distributed database, meaning that the storage devices for the database are not all connected to a common processor. The database is managed by one, several, or all peers in a network rather than a central authority [1].

It is well-known within the software engineering community that verifying emergent system properties in complex systems is an extremely hard problem. The distributed characteristics of blockchain implies that, at any point in time, all users on the blockchain should have an identical copy of the ledger. The purpose of this is to guarantee the phrase "I know, that what I see, is what you see". However, the way of distributing the ledger and how to ensure ledger consistency may vary a lot between implementations.

A blockchain has some key features, like increased capacity, better security, immutability, faster settlement and decentralized system.

###Increased Capacity
The most remarkable thing about this Blockchain technology is that it increases the capacity of the whole network. 

Because of the reason that there are a lot of computers working together which in total offers a great power then few of the devices where the things are centralized.

###Better security
Blockchains tend to have better security because there is no single point of failure to shut down the network. Even the highest levels of our financial system are vulnerable to hacks. Bitcoin on the other hand, has never been hacked. The reason is that the blockchain network is secured by a number of computers called nodes and these nodes confirm the transaction on this network. Sure, it’s possible to hack individual private keys if they’re not securely stored, but the network in and of itself remains fully secure.

Blockchains are secured by many computers that run nodes and confirm transactions on the networks. Public blockchains use their own currency as an incentive mechanism to reward miners for securing transactions on the ledger.

###Immutability
Creating immutable ledgers is one of the main value propositions for blockchains. Any centralized database can be corrupted and generally requires trust in a third party to keep the information accurate. Blockchains like Bitcoin keep the ledger in a perpetual state of forward momentum because millions of dollars’ worth of hashing power confirms new transactions that are recorded.

To change the history of Bitcoin’s ledger would require controlling at least 51% of the hashing power. As well, the further back one tries to go on the ledger, the more expensive the attack will be. Alternatively, the ledger could be changed with a hard fork but that would require consensus amongst developers, miners, node operators, exchanges and individual users. As seen with the split between Ethereum vs Ethereum classic, there’s still a high chance that the old ledger would remain intact.

###Faster Settlement
Traditional international banking can be very slow, with settlement times often taking days to process. This is the main reason why most financial institutions are looking to upgrade their systems. We can solve this problem by the means of Blockchain as it can settle money transfer at really fast speeds. This ultimately saves a lot of time and money from these institutions and provide convenience to the consumer also.

###Decentralized System
Decentralized technology gives users the power to store their assets in a network which further access by the means of the internet, an asset can be anything like a contract, a document etc. Through this owner has a direct control over his account by the means of a key that is linked to his account which gives the owner a power to transfer his assets to anyone he wants.

The Blockchain technology proves to be a really effective tool for decentralizing the web. It does possess the power to bring massive changes in the industries.

Foldingcoin is a perfect example of increasing network capacity by using many computers. The project started at Stanford University and created a distributed supercomputer that simulates protein folding for medical research. It takes microseconds for a protein to fold, which is faster than the processing power of a regular computer. Normally a protein folding simulator requires building a multi-million-dollar supercomputer but the Foldingcoin project managed to build it for cheap by using a distributed network.

***

[<< 2.1.Traditional Database](2.1.Traditional_Database.md) | [2.3.The Difference >>](2.3.The_Difference.md)

***

```

Quellenangabe:

[01] - Deloitte. Bitcoin, "blockchain and distributed ledgers: caught between promise and reality", 2016.

```

***
