## 2.3.The Difference

A blockchain is actually a database because it is a digital ledger that stores information in data structures called blocks. A database likewise stores information in data structures called tables. However, while a blockchain is a database, a database is not a blockchain.
There is the basic difference between a database and a blockchain. 

A database is an organized collection of information that can be easily accessed, managed and updated. Data is organized into rows, columns, and tables, and it is indexed to make it easier to find relevant information. Data gets updated, expanded and deleted as new information is added. Databases process workloads to create and update themselves, querying the data they contain and running applications against it.

Databases are highly centralized as they are owned by a designated authority which lays down the conditions for clients to have access to the database. However, if the security of this authority is compromised, the database can be altered or even destroyed at the mercy of the hacker.

On the other hand, a blockchain is a chain of blocks containing data. In a blockchain database, the control is decentralized and is spread amongst various nodes (participants) in the network. All these nodes reach a common consensus using a consensus algorithm to decide which block is to be appended to the chain. This consensus protocol makes the data immutable and difficult to tamper.

Different blockchains can use different consensus protocols such as Proof of Work (used by Bitcoin), Proof of Stake (used by NEO) etc.
We can clearly see that the design is what makes a traditional database and blockchain different. Let’s summarize some of those features.

|Traditional Database|Blockchain|
|:-------|:-------|
|Databases have admins & centralized control|No one is the admin or in-charge|
|Only entities with rights can access database|Anyone can access (public) blockchain|
|Only entities entitled to read or write can do so|Anyone with right proof of work can write on the blockchain|
|Databases are fast|Blockchains are slow|
|History of records & ownership of digital records|History of records & ownership of digital records|

Table 1: The difference between a traditional database and a blockchain
***

[<< 2.2.Blockchain Database](2.2.Blockchain_Database.md) | [3.Blockchain >>](3.The_Blockchain.md)

***
