## 3.2. Types of Blockchain
There mainly three types of Blockchains that have emerged after Bitcoin introduced Blockchain to the world. They are Public Blockchain, Private Blockchain and Consortium or Federated Blockchain.
### 3.2.1. Public Blockchain
A public blockchain as its name suggests is the blockchain of the public, meaning a kind of blockchain which is- "for the people, by the people and of the people".

Here no one is in charge and anyone can participate in reading/writing/auditing the blockchain. Another thing is that these types of blockchain are open and transparent hence anyone can review anything at a given point of time on a public blockchain.

But a natural question that comes to our mind is that when no one is in charge here then how the decisions are taken on these types of the blockchain. So the answer is that decision making happens by various decentralized consensus mechanisms such as proof of work (POW) and proof of stake (POS) etc.

Famouse example like Bitcoin(BTC) and Litecoin(LTC). On Bitcoin and Litecoin blockchain networks anyone can do the following things that make it truly public blockchain.
- Anyone can run BTC/LTC full node and start mining.
- Anyone can make transactions on BTC/LTC chain.
- Anyone can review/audit the blockchain in a Blockchain explorer.

### 3.2.2. Private Blockchain
Private blockchain as its name suggests is a private property of an individual or an organization.

Unlike public blockchain here there is an in charge who looks after of important things such as read/write or whom to selectively give access to read or vice versa.

Here the consensus is achieved on the whims of the central in-charge who can give mining rights to anyone or not give at all.

That’s what makes it centralized again where various rights are exercised and vested in a central trusted party but yet it is cryptographical secured from the company’s point of view and more cost-effective for them.

But it is still debatable if such a private thing can be called a ‘Blockchain’ because it fundamentally defeats the whole purpose of blockchain that Bitcoin introduced to us.

Bankchain is typical private blockchain. In this type of blockchain:
- Anyone can’t run a full node and start mining.
- Anyone can’t make transactions on the chain.
- Anyone can’t review/audit the blockchain in a Blockchain explorer.

### 3.2.3. Consortium or Federated Blockchain
This type of blockchain tries to remove the sole autonomy which gets vested in just one entity by using private blockchains.

So here instead of one in charge, you have more than one in charge. Basically, you have a group of companies or representative individuals coming together and making decisions for the best benefit of the whole network. Such groups are also called consortiums or a federation that’s why the name consortium or federated blockchain.

For example, let suppose you have a consortium of world’s top 20 financial institutes out which you have decided in the code that if a transaction or a block or decision is voted/verified by more than 15 institutes then only it should get added to the blockchain.

So it is a way of achieving thing much faster and you also have more than one single point of failures which in a way protects the whole ecosystem against a single point of failure.

EWF and r3 are example for this type of blockchain. In such type blockchain:
- Members of the consortium can run a full node and start mining.
- Members of the consortium can make transactions/decisions on the chain.
- Members of the consortium can review/audit the blockchain in a Blockchain explorer.

***

[<< 3.1.Structure](3.1.Structure.md) | [3.3.Advantages of Blockchain >>](3.3.Advantages_of_Blockchain.md)

***
