## 3.3 Advantages of Blockchain

Why is blockchain useful? The key advantages that Blockchain offers are:

### Transparency
Transaction histories are becoming more transparent through the use of blockchain technology. Because blockchain is a type of distributed ledger, all network participants share the same documentation as opposed to individual copies. That shared version can only be updated through consensus, which means everyone must agree on it.

### Security and Reliability
Since the blockchain networks are decentralised, there is no central point of failure in the system. Loyalty means that there are no weak points in the net from where any information can be hacked. This also prevents any malicious attacks from occurring, thus improving the overall reliability of the network. Apart from this, every blockchain transaction has to be digitally signed through a shared public and private key. These keys use different cryptographic schemes which make sure that any transactions are entirely encrypted. Thus, connections established are 100% secured. 

### Decentralization
Blockchain also supports the reduction in centralised monopolies or “middle-men” [1] and removes costs. By distributing networks blockchain can find economies of scale, without single centralised investment. This increases competition in the market, by lowering the barriers to entry, putting pressure on all participants to become more efficient. Added to this, allowing peers to transact with no requirement for trust disrupts the current business practices of organisations who facilitate trust e.g. Banks. Transactions directly between peers, may lead to reduction in “middle-man” steps, further increasing market efficiency.

[1] Will Kenton, “Middleman”, online: https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/middleman.asp , Retrieved January 2019. 

### Immutability
A blockchain stores information that becomes immutable, meaning it cannot be changed once a block has been validated. This also makes it resistant to tampering and manipulation because the information is recorded on a digital public ledger stored on many nodes. To compromise it means to change that information in all the nodes on the network.

### Stock exchange
The notion of using blockchain technology for securities and commodities trading has been around for a while. Given the open-yet-reliable nature of blockchain systems, it isn’t surprising to hear that stock exchanges now consider it as the next big leap forward.
In fact, Australia’s stock exchange is already dead set on switching to a blockchain-powered system [2] for their operations, which is designed by the blockchain startup Digital Asset Holdings. In a press release published in December 2017, Blythe Masters, CEO of Digital Asset, said, “after so much hype surrounding distributed ledger technology, today’s announcement delivers the first meaningful proof that the technology can live up to its potential.”[3]

[2] Patrick Caughill, “Australia’s Stock Exchange Is the First to Use Blockchain Tech: Making the switch could save tens of millions.”, 2017, online: https://futurism.com/australia-stock-exchange-blockchain/ , Retrieved January 2019. 
[3] Blythe Masters, “Media Release”, 2017, https://www.asx.com.au/documents/asx-news/ASX-Selects-DLT-to-Replace-CHESS-Media-Release-7December2017.pdf , Retrieved January 2019. 

### Reduced costs
For most businesses, reducing costs is a priority. With blockchain, you don’t need as many third parties or middlemen to make guarantees because it doesn’t matter if you can trust your trading partner. Instead, you just have to trust the data on the blockchain.

### Traceability
Another advantage of the blockchain technology is that not only is it cost-effective but it is also easily traceable. Thus, in the case of supply chain management, blockchain can be used to track the origin of goods their quantity as well as the movement of these said goods. This leads to an improved level of transparency between business ecosystems while simultaneously simplifying production processes.


***

[<< 2.2.Blockchain Database](2.2.Blockchain_Database.md) | [3.Blockchain >>](3.0.The_Blockchain.md)

***
