## 3.4.Challenges of Blockchain
Blockchain is not without it’s weaknesses, there are also challenges. 

### Energy Consuming Consensus Mechanisms
The majority of blockchains use proof-of-work (PoW) in order to achieve consensus. PoW involves the use of the computational power of a machine to solve complex mathematical equations in order to verify a transaction and add it to a block.

While this mechanism works well, as is witnessed in the Bitcoin network, it does consume a lot of energy. It has been reported that the miners who work to validate transactions in the Bitcoin blockchain consume about 0.2 percent of the global electricity total per year [1]. This is equal to what the country of Bulgaria consumes. Moreover, going on the current trend it is being estimated that by 2020 the Bitcoin network will require more electricity than what the entire world currently uses [2].

With current concerns about global energy production and consumption, blockchains will need to use other methods to achieve consensus, such as the proof-of-stake algorithm which requires much less energy. This will allow the technology to be integrated into a future, which is increasingly conscious of energy matters.

### Scalability
Blockchains do not scale well when it comes to high volume transactions. Due to the fixed block size, there are problems with increasing transaction volume. The delays also affect transaction velocity, where most blockchains cannot process more than 15 transactions per second. Scaling solutions have become the focus of many projects to optimize performance to handle more transactions and increase processing time. If claims to 1 million transactions per second are proven on the blockchain (not yet as of this writing) then that can significantly disrupt the rest of the industry.

### Network speed/cost
Blockchain networks require Nodes to run. But as many of the networks are new, they lack the number of Nodes to facilitate widespread usage. This lack of resource manifests as:

-	Higher costs — as Nodes seek higher rewards for completing Transactions in a Supply and Demand scenario
-	Slower transactions — as Nodes prioritise Transactions with higher rewards, backlogs of transactions build up

Over time, successful public blockchain networks will have to incentivise Nodes, whilst creating favourable costs for users, with transactions completed in a relevant timeframe. This balance is key to the economics of each blockchain.

### The size of the block
Each transaction or “block” added to the chain increases the size of the database. As every node has to maintain a the chain to run, the computing requirements increase with each use. For large public implementations of Blockchain this has one of two affects:
-	Smaller ledger — Not every Node can carry a full copy of the Blockchain, potentially affecting immutability, consensus etc.
-	More centralised — There is a high barrier to entry to become a Node, encouraging a larger amount of centralisation in the Network, with bigger players able to take more control.

Neither of these scenarios is desirable, without considering the full implications, as it will likely affect the use cases for blockchain variants.

### Interoperability
This is currently an issue since, unlike traditional databases, each blockchain is very much its own ecosystem. There are protocols that aim to make blockchains interoperate with each other. For example, to allow users to transfer value from Bitcoin to another blockchain like Ethereum requires the use of a digital exchange. Developers are finding ways to make dissimilar blockchains interoperable to make the transfer of value much simpler.

### Privacy
The Bitcoin blockchain is designed to be publicly visible. All the information pertaining to a transaction is available for anyone to view. With the exception of privacy-centric coins, this is the same with many of the blockchains currently in existence.

While this feature may be important in some contexts, it becomes a liability if distributed ledgers are to be used in sensitive environments. For instance, private patient data should not be available for all as is the case with proprietary business data. This is also applicable to government data or financial data.

For blockchain technology to be adopted on a wide scale, the ledgers need to be altered in order to limit access to the data contained therein to only those who have the necessary clearance.


***

[<< 3.3.Advantages of Blockchain](3.3.Advantages_of_Blockchains.md) | [3.5.The Application Areas >>](3.5.The_Application_Areas.md)

***

```

References:

[1] - Tam Hunt, “Can We Prevent a Global Energy Crisis From Bitcoin Mining? Some ideas on how to stop bitcoin mining from destroying the planet.”, 2018, online: https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/can-we-prevent-a-global-energy-crisis-from-bitcoin-mining#gs.cpHFZ0ik , Retrieved January 2019.
[2] - Eric Holthaus, “Bitcoin could cost us our clean-energy future”, 2017, online: https://grist.org/article/bitcoin-could-cost-us-our-clean-energy-future/ , Retrieved January 2019. 

```

***
