## 3.5. The Application areas 
### 3.5.1. Application in finance service
The application of blockchain technology is now in various areas. The most famous application of blockchain is in banking and finance market. Since 2008, the blockchain technology has depicted the change that it can bring in different business areas. Because of various features of Blockchain such as decentralization, immutability and transparency, it is appealing for business sectors and domains all across the world.<br/><br/>
Most parties in the financial sector already have grasp of concepts such as bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies. These concepts work on the blockchain technology, which is a digital, distributed transaction ledger with identical copies maintained on each of the network’s members’ computers. All parties can review previous entries and record new ones. Transactions are grouped in blocks, recorded one after the other in a chain of blocks (the 'blockchain'). The links between blocks and their content are protected by cryptography, so previous transactions cannot be destroyed or forged. This means that the ledger and the transaction network are trusted without a central authority – a ‘middleman’.<br/><br/>
Bitcoin and Litecoin are two major existing financial implementations of blockchain technology.<br/><br/>
**Bitcoin (BTC or ฿)**<br/>
The first implementation of blockchain was introduced in the white paper of Bitcoin, a decentralized digital currency without a central bank or single administrator that can be sent from user-to-user on the peer-to-peer bitcoin network without the need for intermediaries[1]. The invention was published after the Great Financial Crisis with the purpose to eliminate central authorities, increase transparency and allow direct online cash transfers without compromising security and safety. This is possible with the Bitcoin blockchain, which is built on asymmetric cryptography, hash algorithms and a network communicating over TCP.<br/><br/>
**Litecoin (LTC or Ł)**<br/>
Litecoin is a peer-to-peer cryptocurrency and open-source software project released under the MIT/X11 license. Creation and transfer of coins is based on an open source cryptographic protocol and is not managed by any central authority.[2] Litecoin was an early bitcoin spinoff or altcoin, starting in October 2011.[3] In technical details, Litecoin is nearly identical to Bitcoin.<br/>
### 3.5.2. Application beyond finance service
In fact, blockchain is now revolutionizing most every industry.<br/><br/>
**Ownership and Authorship**<br/>
Ascribe is a blockchain technology platform. It enables creators and artists to manage their valuable digital creations via Blockchain. Ascribe helps to generate digital editions with an exclusive ID as well as a digital certificate of authenticity to prove attribution and legitimacy. This platform permits to accept consignments from creators and artists and transfer digital work to collectors with all the terms and legal.<br/>
Few examples including Blockai, Bitproof, Verisart, OriginalMy, Proof of Existance, Stampery, Monegraph, Crypto-Copyright and some other companies model ownership and authorship into Blockchain technology.<br/><br/>
**Data Handling**<br/>
Factom uses Blockchain-based identity ledgers in database management to support a several applications. It is one of the distinguished Blockchain companies to apply distributed ledger to the non-financial market – in this case, data handling. Factom can help businesses and governments to simplify their records management, record business processes and address security and compliance issues with ease.<br/>
Furthermore, it can uphold everlasting and time-stamped record of data permitting companies to reduce their expenses and difficulty of managing records, conducting audits and obeying government rules.<br/><br/>
**Market Forecasting**<br/>
Augur is basically an open source, regionalized market forecast platform built on Ethereum Blockchain. It helps users to trade on the consequence of events and for the market to the power that crowd-sourced information. Augur comes up with several plans to use regionalized public ledgers to create a way for anyone in any field effortlessly from finance, healthcare and governance to tap into the shared estimating power of a global user base.<br/><br/>
**Infrastructure of Network**<br/>
Proposed in late 2013, Ethereum is a blockchain initiative to address constraints within the Bitcoin protocol. The initiators of Ethereum saw two possible ways forward for the blockchain technology; either through developing stand alone blockchains for every application, or, build interlinked applications on top of the Bitcoin blockchain (meta-protocols). The former alternative was disregarded as it would be hard to implement in reality and the user base would be far too small to warrant their own blockchain. In addition, they recognized the need for applications and organizations to interact with each other, something that would be much easier with a common platform. <br/><br/>
So a programming language and a platform for helping developers to build and publish next-generation distributed applications on top of a Bitcoin blockchain was evaluated. Ethereum can be used in numerous ways i.e. to codify, decentralize, secure and trade just about anything: domain names, company governance, knowledgeable property, voting, financial exchanges, contracts and agreements of most kinds, crowd-funding and even smart property thanks to hardware integration. Ranking and Reputation Verification Applying DLT (distributed ledger technology) to reviews helps delivering trustworthy endorsements. Based on Ethereum which is a regionalized display place which runs smart contracts, Thankscoin is having a well-reputation ranking of Internet users and monetary reward according to the value of reputation.<br/>



